{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2578
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red67\green67\blue67;\red0\green0\blue0;\red253\green183\blue144;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c33333\c33333\c33333;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c99400\c71900\c56300;
}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Essay notes \
\
Give a definition of mise en sc\'e8ne at the beginning of the essay \
\
Attach mise en sc\'e8ne to a peticular theorist \
\
Brian Henderson\
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
<$Scr_Ps::0>
\fs28 Murnau, Ophuls, and Welles are celebrated metteurs en sc\'e8ne, that is, practitioners of the art of mise-en-sc\'e8ne. One does not lightly venture a definition of mise-en-sc\'e8ne, cinema's grand undefined term, of which each person, when examined, reveals a different sense and meaning. (To the problem "What is Mise-en-Sc\'e8ne?" Astruc devotes a brilliant essay which nevertheless fails to answer the question.) The term is originally a theatrical one meaning literally (to) put in place. It is, baldly, the art of the image itself- the actors, sets and backgrounds, lighting, and camera movements considered in relation to themselves and to each other. Of course the individual images of montage have or exhibit mise-en-sc\'e8ne. But it is generally thought that the true cultivation and expression of the image as such- as opposed to the relation between images, which is the central expressive category of montage- requires the duration of the long take (a single piece of unedited film, which may or may not constitute an entire sequence). Opinion aside, \cb4 it is the long take alone which permits the director to vary and develop the image without switching to another image; it is often this uninterrupted development that is meant by mise-en-sc\'e8ne.\cb1  Thus the long take makes mise-en-sc\'e8ne possible. The long take is the presupposition or a priori of mise-en-sc\'e8ne, that is, the ground or field in which mise-en-sc\'e8ne can occur. It is the time necessary for mise-en-sc\'e8ne space.
\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}