{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2578\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;}{\colortbl ;\red255\green255\blue255 ;\red253\green183\blue144 ;}{\*\expandedcolortbl
;;\csgenericrgb\c99400\c71900\c56300 ;}\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sa160\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0\f0\fs24\cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>\f1\fs26\tab In this essay I will analyse White shadows in the south seas (1928). The aspects of mise-en-scene i\rquote
m going to be focusing on are the lighting and camera work alongside the blocking. For the purpose of the essay I am going to be referring to Brian Henderson\rquote s definition of mise-en-scene \f2\i\ldblquote it is the long take alone which permits the director to vary and develop the image without switching to another image; it is often this uninterrupted development that is meant by mise-en-sc\u232?ne\rdblquote
 \f1\i0 alongside David Bordwell\rquote s definition as it allows for more interpretation\f2\i  \ldblquote mise-en-sc\u232?ne refers to everything that appears before the camera and its arrangement\emdash composition, sets, props, actors, costumes, and lighting\rdblquote\f1\i0
.
\par\tab Looking at the 50 second dolly shot at the bringing of the film, one can see that every person has a clear movement path going either parallel to the camera or walking alongside it exempt for one of the diver who seems to walk the opposite to the direction that the camera is travelling at first glance this looks choice with no real reason behind it, however if look closely the man resembles the divers in the way he\rquote
s dressed. In this case, the mise-en-sc\u232?ne is foreshadowing that divers are being taken advantage of by the traders for pearls. 
\par\tab The scene finishes when a man warring a bright white shit walking into the restraint whereas so happens the primary antagonist of the story are convening. The director\rquote s intention with the mise-en-scene is to \cb2 make\cb1  the viewer to follow the person into the restaurant where the next part of the story is going to take place. When the (title card) appears and says \ldblquote\f2\i
Mr. Sebastian\f1\i0\rdblquote  creates suspense to find out how Mr. Sebastian actually is.
\par When Mr. Sebastian is told about the large pearl some you already make the presumption that he is the antagonist from the way he looks down at the messenger and   
\par\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0\f0\fs24\cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>\f1\fs26 Analyse something about how tall and bad the trader is 
\par
\par When walking toward the group of traders that have the \cb2 peril\cb1  the camera slowly follows Mr. Sebastian \cb2 there is just something evil about his can\rquote t really explain\cb1 .
\par
\par Then go to how they made you scared in the peul 
\par
\par Finally talk about the hospital and the final scene
\par
\par\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sa160\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0\f0\fs24\cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>\f1\fs26\tab the second scene i want to analyse is when one of the diver gets their leg stuck in an oyster (or something like that) 
\par When looking at the scene\tab in the makeshift hospital where one of the diver is being treated for a collapsed lung. The director uses mise-en-sc\u232?ne to create the impression of venerability and harshness side by side this is done by having hard light that completely isolates the two curators from the background. However, the lighting is not the only aspect of mise-en-sc\u232?ne that creates the tension.
\par\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}