{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2578
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red190\green190\blue190;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c100000;\cssrgb\c79216\c79216\c79216;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs42\fsmilli21333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Assessment Component 1 
\fs32 (LOs 1 and 3) 
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs32 \cf2 There are two assessment components for this unit. Component 1, completed in Term 1 is worth 30% of the marks for the unit and Component 2 completed in Term 2 is worth 70%. A percentage mark will be awarded for each component with the final mark at the end of the unit comprising an aggregate of the two. Each assessment component essay must be submitted by the specified deadline on myUCA Turnitin see here for more information \cf3 \strokec3 http://www.uca.ac.uk/library/academic-support/plagiarism-and-turnitin/ 
\f1\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 A 1000 word (+ / - 10%) written film analysis and 5-item bibliography.\uc0\u8232 LO1 Relate knowledge and understanding of a range of fundamental concepts of moving 
\f1\b0\fs24 \

\f0\b\fs32 image history and theory to a moving image text.\uc0\u8232 LO3 Accurately and effectively use a range of appropriate academic research and study 
\f1\b0\fs24 \

\f0\b\fs32 skills to produce analyses of moving image texts. 
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs37\fsmilli18667 \cf2 Film Analysis Essay Brief 
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 Select either one short (less than 15 minutes long) silent film or a sequence of less than 15 minutes from a longer silent film made between 1895 and 1929. Many short silent films are available as part of DVD compilations, so you need to select one film from the compilation. 
\f1\b0\fs24 \

\f0\b\fs32 After watching your chosen film, find four published sources of information about film language, grammar and mise-en-scene, silent cinema and the film you have watched. Use these research sources to help you write a short (1000 word) analysis of the film\'92s mise-en-scene, employing appropriate film language and grammar, to demonstrate how the film visually tells its story. Sound should not be included. You should find and use the following types of information: 
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa320\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Two academic books 
\f1\b0 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 One refereed (also known as peer reviewed) journal article accessed through the 
\f1\b0 \uc0\u8232 
\f0\b Library\'92s print and e-journals search 
\f1\b0 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 One journal article of any kind accessed through the library 
\f1\b0 \uc0\u8232 
\f0\b Your analysis should be based on the ideas and information contained within the four research sources. These four sources, along with the film you have analysed, should form the five-item bibliography. The bibliography should be placed at the end of your work and must be set out in accordance with the UCA Harvard referencing style. The UCA Harvard referencing style must also be used to acknowledge the sources of all direct quotations used and any ideas used that have been found in primary and/or secondary research sources. 
\f1\b0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa320\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f2 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 You will be introduced to the library\'92s resources in research seminars as part of this unit. 
\f1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls2\ilvl0
\f2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 You will be introduced to the Harvard referencing system in writing seminars as part of 
\f1 \uc0\u8232 
\f2 this unit. 
\f1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls2\ilvl0
\f2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 You will be introduced to ideas about mise-en-scene and some of the fundamental concepts of film language and grammar in the lectures and screenings as part of this unit. 
\f1 \uc0\u8232 
\f2 This assessment task is designed to 
\f1 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa320\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0
\f2 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Help you familiarise yourself with the research sources available via the library 
\f1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls3\ilvl0
\f2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Enable you to use the appropriate academic conventions for citations and referencing 
\f1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls3\ilvl0
\f2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Use research sources to find out about a subject area and apply that information to produce a short film analysis 
\f1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls3\ilvl0
\f2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Enable you to become an independent learner 
\f1 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 \cb4 All essays must start with the following sentence:\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb4 In this essay I will be analysing 
\f2\b0 [insert title of film and date in ( )]
\f0\b . The aspects of mise-en- scene to be focused on are 
\f2\b0 [insert aspects of mise-en-scene here] 
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \
}